
(20%)
write a report with minimum 500 words to discuss the strength and weakness of the 2 search strategies including the time and space analysis based on your empirical observation. will ida still be optimal when the step cost is no longer uniform? why?

	The two search strategies in this homework assignment are IDA and A*. These two methods are used in concert. However, we can also consider the two strategies separately to analyze the respective strength and weakness of each. Specifically, we are interested in the time and space analysis of the two. We find that IDA is effective for time considerations with a space weakness. We also find that A* is effective for space considerations with time weakness.
	
	The IDA algorithm takes an input marking the limit for the depth that the algorithm should search. For example, for an IDA limit of three, the algorithm performs a search expanding all the nodes with that depth. The IDA algorithm expands no further than three in this example. That is, no node with depth four will be expanded. However, any node with depth two that has an unexplored node will be expanded to reach that node.
	
	We find that the IDA algorithm is effective for time considerations. Its strength is that it does not perform complex calculations in each iteration. That is, its algorithm complexity is low. Algorithmic complexity in this case is the way we determine time effectiveness. Thus, the IDA algorithm's strength is that it is efficient in terms of time. The IDA algorithm simply performs a brute force expansion of the nodes. Its only algorithmic consideration is a counter measuring the depth of exploration. We increment this counter at each iteration. Moreover, at each expansion we compare this counter to the IDA limit. If the counter has not reached the IDA limit then we continue. If the counter has reached the IDA limit then we discontinue expansion of that branch. This algorithm is not algorithmically complex. Thus, the IDA algorithm's strength in this analysis is its efficient use of time.
	
	However, the IDA algorithm is not effective in terms of space. The IDA algorithm is brute force in its approach of expanding the entire tree. That is, the IDA will expand every node of its depth limit. This algorithm has the potential to expand many nodes that are not the goal state. In fact this algorithm is maximally inefficient in terms of expanding the entire tree of its depth limit. In our analysis of IDA we find that the IDA algorithm is effective for time considerations and ineffective in terms of space.
	
	Next we consider an analysis of the A* algorithm in terms of space and time. In the case of the A* algorithm it is an efficient algorithm in terms of space. The A* algorithm's approach is to expand the minimum distance path to take to the goal state at each iteration. The A* algorithm finds the minimum distance path by estimation. Since the A* algorithm expands the minimum distance path the algorithm is effective in terms of space.
	
	The weakness of the A* algorithm is that the algorithm is complex. This is a way of saying that the algorithm is time complex. At each iteration the algorithm does a recursive call to find the minimum step. This time complexity is to account for a a step cost that is not uniform.
